New pages: rule-* shorthand properties (#44895)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/properties/rule-style/index.md

---
title: "`rule-style` CSS property"
short-title: rule-style
slug: Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/rule-style
page-type: css-property
browser-compat: css.properties.rule-style
sidebar: cssref
---

> The **`rule-style`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property defines the line style of the lines drawn between columns and rows in multi-column grid, flex, and multi-col layouts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`rule-style`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property defines the line style of the lines drawn between columns and rows in multi-column grid, flex, and multi-col layouts, setting the styles of the column and row rules to the same value.
```

For consistency with the `rule-width` page? I think it is helpful.

- `<repeat-line-style>`
  - : A {{cssxref("repeat()")}} function, with the first argument being an {{cssxref("&lt;integer&gt;")}} of `1` or more, and subsequent arguments being {{cssxref("&lt;line-style&gt;")}} values. The integer specifies how many times the `<line-style>` values should be repeated.

- `<auto-repeat-line-style>`
  - : A {{cssxref("repeat()")}} function, with `auto` as the first argument and one or more `<line-style>` values as subsequent arguments. The provided `<line-style>` values are repeated as many times as needed to fill in values for any rules that are not explicitly specified by other components of the property value.

## Description

The `rule-style` property defines the line style of any column and row rule lines drawn in the gaps between columns and rows in [multi-column](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Multicol_layout), [flex](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Flexible_box_layout), and [grid](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Grid_layout) containers with more than one column or row.

The `rule-style` sets both the {{cssxref("column-rule-style")}} and {{cssxref("row-rule-style")}} properties to the same value.

> The `rule-style`, along with the {{cssxref("rule-color")}} and {{cssxref("rule-width")}} properties, can also be set using the {{cssxref("rule")}} shorthand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `rule-style` property, along with the {{cssxref("rule-color")}} and {{cssxref("rule-width")}} properties, can also be set using the {{cssxref("rule")}} shorthand.
```

The value is a comma-separated list of components, which can include `<line-style>`, `<repeat-line-style>`, and `<auto-repeat-line-style>` types.

If the property value has only one `<line-style>`, all the column and row rules will be that style. If we declare the following, all column and row rules will be `double`:

```css
rule-style: double;
```

> When more than one `<line-style>` is declared, they will be applied to rules in the order specified. If there are more rules than `<line-style>` values, the list of line styles is repeated until every column and row rule has a style. For example, if we declare the following, every odd rule will be `double`, and every even rule will be `inset`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When multiple `<line-style>` values are declared, they will be applied to rules in the order specified. If there are more rules than `<line-style>` values, the list of line styles is repeated until every column and row rule has a style. For example, if we declare the following, every odd rule will be `double`, and every even rule will be `inset`.
```

</ul>
```

```html hidden live-sample___basic live-sample___multiple live-sample___repeat live-sample___func live-sample___auto
<ul>
  <li>1</li>
  <li>2</li>
  <li>3</li>
  <li>4</li>
  <li>5</li>
  <li>6</li>
  <li>7</li>
  <li>8</li>
  <li>9</li>
  <li>10</li>
  <li>11</li>
  <li>12</li>
  <li>13</li>
  <li>14</li>
  <li>15</li>
  <li>16</li>
  <li>17</li>
  <li>18</li>
  <li>19</li>
  <li>20</li>
  <li>21</li>
  <li>22</li>
  <li>23</li>
  <li>24</li>
  <li>25</li>
  <li>26</li>
  <li>27</li>
  <li>28</li>
  <li>29</li>
  <li>30</li>
  <li>31</li>
  <li>32</li>
  <li>33</li>
  <li>34</li>
  <li>35</li>
  <li>36</li>
  <li>37</li>
  <li>38</li>
  <li>39</li>
  <li>40</li>
  <li>41</li>
  <li>42</li>
  <li>43</li>
  <li>44</li>
  <li>45</li>
  <li>46</li>
  <li>47</li>
  <li>48</li>
  <li>49</li>
  <li>50</li>
  <li>51</li>
  <li>52</li>
  <li>53</li>
  <li>54</li>
  <li>55</li>
  <li>56</li>
  <li>57</li>
  <li>58</li>
  <li>59</li>
  <li>60</li>
  <li>61</li>
  <li>62</li>
  <li>63</li>
  <li>64</li>
  <li>65</li>
  <li>66</li>
  <li>67</li>
  <li>68</li>
  <li>69</li>
  <li>70</li>
  <li>71</li>
  <li>72</li>
  <li>73</li>
  <li>74</li>
  <li>75</li>
</ul>
```

#### CSS

> We define the unordered list to be a 10-column container, creating columns and rows with the {{cssxref("grid-template-columns and rows")}} property and remove the bullets with {{cssxref("list-style-type")}} set to `none`. We include a {{cssxref("gap")}} of `5px` to provide enough room between the columns and rows to fit our `thick dashed orange` rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We define the unordered list as a 10-column container, creating columns and rows with the {{cssxref("grid-template-columns")}} property; we then set {{cssxref("list-style-type")}} to `none` to remove the bullets. We include a {{cssxref("gap")}} of `5px` to provide enough room between the columns and rows to fit our `thick dashed orange` rule.
```

```css live-sample___basic live-sample___multiple live-sample___repeat live-sample___func live-sample___auto
ul {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(10, 1fr);
  list-style-type: none;
  gap: 5px;
  rule-width: thick;
  rule-color: orange;

  rule-style: dashed;
}
li {
  text-align: center;
  aspect-ratio: 1;
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("Basic", "", "600")}}

> ### Multiple values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Excess multiple values
```

Maybe? That is specifically what you are demonstrating.

Author: no. i happen to have excess values, but the point is to show more than one value.

Reviewer: OK, that's fair.

> {{EmbedLiveSample("Basic", "", "600")}}

Reviewer: This example isn't wired up to the non-support banner either. Tested in Fx.

> This example demonstrates using multiple `<line-style>` values as a property value, and also provides an example of all the possible styles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates using multiple `<line-style>` values as a property value, and what happens when more `<line-style>` values are specified than there are gutters to style.
```

The original last bit is kind of repeated below, and it is also not really true, as not all the values are used. I'd just remove it.

We set the `rule-style` property to be a comma-separated list of all the possible `<line-style>` values.

```css live-sample___multiple
ul {
  rule-style:
    dotted, dashed, solid, double, groove, ridge, inset, outset, none, hidden;
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("Multiple", "", "600")}}

> As there are more values than gutters so the last values are not used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are more values than gutters for both the rows and columns; the last values are not used in each case.
```

> {{EmbedLiveSample("Multiple", "", "600")}}

Reviewer: Again, it would be good for the non-support banners to be abspos'ed.

### Repeating values

This example demonstrates how, when there are fewer values in the list of styles than column and row rules, the values are repeated.

Using the same HTML and CSS as in the previous example, we include three comma-separated styles as the `rule-style` value:

```css live-sample___repeat
ul {
  rule-style: solid, groove, double;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("Repeat", "", "600")}}

### Using the `repeat()` function

> This example demonstrates using the `repeat()` function within the `rule-style` property value. We use the same HTML and CSS as in the previous examples. We include a `repeat()` function, setting the list of two `<line-style>` values to be repeated 3 times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates using the `repeat()` function within the `rule-style` property value. We use the same HTML and CSS as in the previous examples. We include a `repeat()` function that sets a list of two `<line-style>` values to be repeated 3 times.
```

> ```css live-sample___func live-sample___auto

Reviewer: Is there any need to include this snippet in both live examples? In the case of `auto`, it is just overridden by the next snippet.

Author: good catch. originally there was more content, and i didn't remove the second example when i removed the features

> ```css live-sample___func live-sample___auto

Author: ```suggestion
```css live-sample___func
```

ul {
  rule-style: solid, repeat(3, inset, outset), solid;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("func", "", "600")}}

> The `repeat()` function repeats two style values three times, creating a list of eight style values, so the styles are repeated for the columns, and the last values in the list are discarded for the rows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `repeat()` function repeats two style values three times, creating a list of eight style values. The styles are repeated for the columns; however, the last values in the list are discarded for the rows.
```

### Using `auto` within `repeat()`

This example demonstrates using `auto` instead of an integer within the `repeat()` function.

> Using `repeat(auto, <line-style>)` we set all column and row rules to `groove`, except the first and last, which we set to `solid`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `repeat(auto, <line-style>)`, we set all column and row rules to `groove`, except the first and last, which we set to `solid`.
```

```css live-sample___auto
ul {
  rule-style: solid, repeat(auto, groove), solid;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("auto", "", "600")}}

> Even though there are more column than row rule lines, the `<auto-repeat-line-color>` enabled the creation of this symmetric effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even though there are more column rule lines than row rule lines, the `<auto-repeat-line-color>` enables the creation of this symmetric effect.
```
